2025-10-09 | 21 likes

This is one of the more impressive demos I’ve ever seen. It’s been totally obvious to me that this level of facility in a humanoid form factor was possible for several years now. 

Deep learning already solved the problems separately and it just had to be integrated correctly with the right hardware.

So it never made any sense why so many people were so skeptical about it, and even thought that the humanoid form was silly or impractical. 

We live in a world designed from the ground up for humans. Wheels get stuck on things. Feet with toes can step over. Hands can grab bannisters and support the body. It’s just totally obvious, really.

There was also a chorus of naysayers and critics specifically targeting Figure and Bret Adcock. Well, their takes look pretty silly and wrong now, huh? 

If Apple demonstrated this product today, their market cap would go up by far more than Figure is currently valued at, let alone the amount of actual capital they’ve raised and spent to get to this point.

That’s a total vindication for Figure. And an indictment of Apple, which so far as I know, isn’t even rumored to be working seriously on a humanoid robot yet. Because it’s the biggest product category in history.

You should take care to keep track of who was so wrong about this and ignore their takes in the future. There’s a huge amount of noise out there, and most people, even technically minded people, seem to be clueless about this stuff.

It’s coming. And way faster than 99% of people are expecting. This thing will be easily able to do most household chores soon, while also being smarter than most people. 

Within 2-3 years it will also be an electrician, carpenter, plumber, you name it (if you have the tools for it, at least). What’s that worth in a world where it’s hard to hire someone skilled (legally) for an all-in cost under $100k?

Surely over $500k. But it won’t cost that much, it will be far less than that. Which makes the economics totally irresistible. Especially if you can lease it like a car for $500/month.

I’m looking forward to having a spotless house despite my kids making a mess every day. And it will be fun watching a few of these robots working together to do home improvement jobs. 

Imagine getting a bunch of lumber and fasteners delivered and having them build you a gazebo or shed in your back yard. It’s not so far-fetched anymore. There’s nowhere to hide from this economic whirlwind.
