2025-12-13 | 9 likes

I found a good workflow for this (perhaps not the best use of my time, but it’s so entertaining…):

You ask Claude Opus 4.5 to do this (replace the artist/song with whatever you want):

“Give me a short prompt that describes the style of “Forget Me Nots” by Patrice Rushen without naming the artist or the song; 300 characters or less.”

They let you use 500 characters on Suno, but less is more, since it gives the Suno model flexibility to find something more optimal sounding.

I’ve found the same thing holds with Nano Banana Pro, where longer prompts with more instructions always produce worse looking outputs, even if they technically comply better with your instructions.

Anyway, Claude will reply with something like this:

“Bouncy, syncopated slap bass driving an uptempo post-disco funk groove (~112 BPM). Bright keyboard stabs, crisp programmed drums, and sweet nimble female vocals with jazzy inflections. Warm yet polished 80s production—playful, flirtatious, irresistibly danceable. Light and effervescent, not heavy.”

If you do the same for Get Lucky by Daft Punk, you get:

“Crisp funk rhythm guitar with muted upstrokes driving a four-on-the-floor disco beat around 116 BPM. Warm analog synths, tight groovy bass, smooth falsetto vocals. Production is polished but retro—70s disco revivalism with modern clarity. Euphoric, breezy, designed for late-night celebration.”

Or using Toyland by Perry Como:

“Warm, relaxed baritone crooning over lush orchestral arrangement with sweeping strings. Gentle waltz-time feel, unhurried and tender. Mid-century easy listening production—nostalgic, dreamy, evoking childlike wonder. Sentimental and wistful without being saccharine. Intimate delivery, parlor-room warmth.”

Then you paste in all your lyrics. It seems to be very smart on detecting nuance of the lyrics and how it should be sung. 

When I gave it old Gaelic lyrics from a Lament for Patrick Sarsfield  (1st Earl of Lucan, died 1693), it did the vocals in what sounds like very accurate pronunciation, at least to my untrained ears.

Anywhere, here’s the Get Lucky style Lament.
