2026-01-13 | 122 likes

I'm very pleased to introduce my latest tool, xf, a hyper-optimized Rust cli tool for searching your entire Twitter/X data archive. You can get it here:

https://t.co/S91cAGleaK

Many people don't realize this, but X has a great feature buried in the settings where you can request a complete dump of all your tweets, DMs, likes, etc. 

It takes them 24 hours to prepare it, but then you get a link emailed to you and can download a single zip file with all your stuff. Mine was around 500mb because of all the images I've posted.

The problem is, what do you do with it? It's not very convenient or fast to search the way they give it to you. 

Enter xf, which takes that zip file and makes it into an incredibly useful knowledge base, at least if you use X a lot. 

And that's because you get it for free! You're just piggybacking on something you were already doing anyway for other reasons. 

As you may have noticed, I'm a bit addicted to posting on here and also to building in public. So whenever I have a new tool, I usually post about it and explain how I use it and answer questions. 

I also have a ton of posts about my workflows in general, and my advice on how to do things, my opinions on various tools and libraries, etc. 

All of that is potentially relevant to a coding agent that is working on my projects, editing my personal website, responding to GitHub issues on my behalf, etc.

So now, I can just tell them to use xf; simply typing that shows the quickstart screen shown in the attached screenshot, and then the agents are off to the races. 

The more you use X (for work at least, it's not going to help if you just troll people), the more of an unlock this is for your personal productivity. 

Imagine that you're a cult leader with devoted acolytes (your agents). Before doing anything, you want them to ask "What would our leader do?" and then they think "I know! I shall consult the sacred texts!" (i.e., your tweets and DMs).

That can be your new reality starting today if you install xf. 

PS: Can someone get this to Elon? I think he would love seeing how fast this tool tears through a massive archive of data and he would end up using it daily. And if someone from X sees this: please make the archives include the full text of any tweet you reply to, it would make this tool even more useful.
