2026-01-15 | 126 likes

If you don’t want to dive directly into my entire Flywheel system all at once, at least try this:

1. Install agent mail using the curl | bash one-liner:

curl -fsSL "https://t.co/4cpumwIS41 +%s)" | bash -s -- --yes

That will automatically install beads if you don’t already have it. 

Then install beads_viewer with its one-liner:

curl -fsSL "https://t.co/OETEyjZZhN +%s)" | bash

Then set up your AGENTS dot md file for your project. 

You can start with this one and just remove the sections for the tools you’re not using yet:

https://t.co/UEViYk7x3Z

Then ask CC to adapt it to better fit the tech stack for your particular project.

That’s all you need to get started. Then follow this workflow:

 https://t.co/xkxAQzMPQl

Try to start with a smaller, self-contained greenfield (new) project and see whether you can get it all working perfectly without looking at any of the code, just from following the workflow.

Spend most of your energy and human time/focus on the markdown plan. Don’t be lazy about the plan!

The more you iterate on it with GPT Pro and layer in feedback from other models, the better your project will turn out.

Also don’t be lazy about turning the markdown plan into beads, either. Don’t try to one-shot it with CC, you will 100% miss stuff from the plan.

This is the easiest thing to screw up assuming you already have a great markdown plan. Do at least 3 rounds of polishing, improving, and expanding the beads. 

Once you have the beads in good shape based on a great markdown plan, I almost view the project as a foregone conclusion at that point.

The rest is basically mindless “machine tending” of your swarm of 5-15 agents as they build out the beads.

It’s mostly just juggling these tasks:

- Making sure to make them read AGENTS dot md after compactions.

- Using many rounds of the “fresh eyes” review prompt whenever an agent tells you it’s done implementing one of the beads.

- Swapping accounts when you run out of usage (ugh!).

- Making sure you commit frequently to GitHub using my “logically grouped” commits prompt.

- When all beads are complete, doing many rounds of the random code inspection and review.

- Adding more and more unit and e2e tests.

- Setting up gh actions for testing, builds, tags, releases, checksums, etc.

- Writing a README and help/docs/tutorials.

- Iterating on a “robot mode” (you added one, right?) with feedback from the agents to make it better.

- Seeing if you can make your project work better when controlled by Claude Code by making a skill for it.

But most of these things can be done using very little mental focus or attention/energy. Save all of that for the ideation and planning phases! 

The one thing people seem to get wrong is ignoring what I say about planning or transforming their plan into beads. 

They make a slipshod plan all at once with Claude Code. Or they try to one-shot turning the plan into beads. Or they even do both of those things!

Well, of course the project is going to suck and be a buggy mess if you do that.

So don’t be lazy. Or if you insist on being lazy, save it for the stages after planning. A great set of beads is all you need. 

As for the rest of my tools:

Once you get comfortable with that workflow, start layering in the other tools, starting with ubs to help find bugs during the review phases. 

Then add in dcg. You’ll actually appreciate dcg a lot more once Claude wipes out all the work from the other agents since the last commit!

As you build up a good session history, layer in cass so you can tap into that history. 

And then try cm (cass memory system) to start extracting and codifying lessons from your past sessions.

And I know I’ve said that I don’t really use ntm yet (I’m not dogfooding it at least), but that’s not quite true. I’ve been using it as a handy building block because of its robot mode. For example, ntm is used by ru (repo_updater) to automate handling gh issues.

Good luck, and come to the Discord with any questions!
