2026-01-20 | 19 likes

Agreed, some level of centralization is more efficient than "pure" decentralization, clearly. But the question is what form that centralization should take.

In the case of Bitcoin, the centralization primarily takes the form that most clients are running the same C++ bitcoind node software, which is made by a group of competent developers that review the work, and anything beyond bug fixes has to go through a whole long process, with layers and layers of reviews and checks and tests.

In the case of my software development workflows, the centralization is injected at the very beginning of the process during the planning phases: in the ideation and design and architecture of the markdown plan document.

This process involves soliciting feedback from all frontier models and blending them in, but I drive the process with my second-in-command, GPT-5.2 Pro with Extended Thinking, as the primary drafter.

We jointly go through a sickening number of iterations and refinements to the markdown plan.

Once I have that plan document, I turn it into beads (epics, tasks, and sub-tasks) and then iteratively refine and polish those beads. 

Again, I involve both Opus 4.5 (via CC) and GPT-5.2 xHigh (via Codex) in that iterative process, but it's "centralized" with just two agents.

But at the end of that long road, I now have everything I need laid out more completely and clearly than any Soviet central planner apparatchik could dream of.

And that's where the centralization should end, other than the logistical coordination I described earlier (restarting crashed agents, dealing with usage limits, initial startup of agents, etc).

Those beads are the sacred texts that contain within them the road to El Dorado. 

And bv (i.e., my beads_viewer tool) is the sacred compass, pointing each agent *individually* in the direction of maximal ascension to the complete implementation of the entire plan, without another agent needlessly bossing them around about what to do. 

Every agent, a king.
