2026-01-22 | 9 likes

And here is another example of one of these "meta prompt" self-improvement cycles. This one is more targeted because I already knew what I wanted to do:

---

Read AGENTS .md. Now, I want you to review /dp/rust_toon; this is a system for converting back and forth between json and toon, which is a token-optimized format ideal for agents. 

My goal is to intelligently integrate toon into ALL of the tools in that LIST_OF_DOODLESTEIN_REPOS_FOR_AGENT_DIRECTED_TOOLS.md file in a way that's totally intuitive and ergonomic for agents like yourself to use.

We can add it as an additional format to go along with json, and also add the ability to default to that format, but such that the format is explained in a super concise (but token-dense and intuitive way for agents) in the quick start or robot help shown to the agent. First I want you to come up with a detailed plan for doing this for each of the tool projects. 

It's a huge project to do this all because each project is different: they are in different languages (rust, golang, typescript, etc), serve very different purposes, etc. So go one by one very carefully and come up with a super detailed, comprehensive, and granular plan to do all of this.

Then take ALL of that and elaborate on it and use it to create a comprehensive and granular set of beads for all this with tasks, subtasks, and dependency structure overlaid, with detailed comments so that the whole thing is totally self-contained and self-documenting (including relevant background, reasoning/justification, considerations, etc.-- anything we'd want our "future self" to know about the goals and intentions and thought process and how it serves the over-arching goals of the project). The beads should be so detailed that we never need to consult back to the original markdown plan document. Remember to ONLY use the `br` tool to create and modify the beads and add the dependencies. 

Note that the beads themselves that you make NOW should be tasks to research a particular project repo to gather the information required to come up with the individual project-level task beads (those project-level beads should be created within each of the specific project directories, not in /dp directly-- the beads directly within /dp are only for these super high-level, overall task related beads.
