2026-03-21 | 60 likes

Here's where this approach really turns into the "virtuous circle" that goes beyond simply being a useful technique and morphs into something more like the "in-context recursive self-improvement" that I've been talking about recently:

You take the improved skill that you supercharged by studying a "golden exemplar" and then use it to improve another project. In this case, I used it on my ntm agent orchestration project as follows:

❯ First read ALL of the AGENTS.md file and README.md file super carefully and understand ALL of both! Then use your code investigation agent mode to fully understand the code and technical architecture and purpose of the project. I want you to think super hard about how we can upgrade the tui of this app using /building-glamorous-tuis and leveraging /tui-inspector to "close the loop" so you can verify and validate any changes you make to the tui.

That's it! That /tui-inspector skill is another skill I made that you can think of as being sort of like how you might use Playwright to test a web app and take screenshots of it that the agent can review to finally "see" the site and diagnose visual glitches and design problems. 

Just like with websites, agents can't really "see" interactive TUIs without some help and guidance along the way, and static code analysis by itself can only take them so far.

Being able to fully close the automation loop is a key part to making this kind of thing reach escape velocity so that you can just start it up and switch to something else and come back an hour later to see it all working nicely.

In this case, things really got meta, because I had Claude Code take the plan it came up with and use it with ntm itself (leveraging two different ntm-related skills!) to manage the agent swarm to implement the plan. 

This is why I think of this as "in-context recursive self-improvement." I say that it's "cyborg-style" because it's not just at the level of the LLM or the agent harness, it's also at the level of the tooling provided to the agent, and feeding that back into the system.

Almost like having a RoboCop that can iteratively redesign his own gun after every shootout with criminals so that it works better the next time around. "Serve the public trust, protect the innocent, uphold the law, [and recursively self-improve using skills.md files]."
