2026-04-25 | 67 likes

BTW, this is my current "universal starting prompt" that I've been using on in-flight projects (i.e., not starting from scratch) in Claude Code, and what was used in the above screenshot for working on my project, https://t.co/chaPlihrDW:

❯ Reread AGENTS.md so it’s still fresh in your mind.

Then, I need you to use /ntm and /vibing-with-ntm to create a swarm comprising 4 cod instances and 2 cc instances. Make sure also that we don’t run out of space by periodically clearing stale build artifacts. And make sure to use rch for all builds/tests (see /rch).

Try to avoid excessive build contention from concurrent builds for the same project by multiple agents within the same project-level swarm. And use your looper tool every 4 minutes to pass fresh instructions to any agents in the swarms in need of further input (i.e., that are idle), guided by bv’s (see /bv) triage command for open beads.

Also look for beads that are clearly “stalled out”; that is, marked as being in progress (likely by long-dead agents), with no recent work on them whatsoever, and mark them as being open again.

Keep going until all the beads are done; then transition into using the code review workflow in /vibing-with-ntm and using cc and cod instances from the swarm.

You can also use the various skills with names beginning with the string “testing-” to improve our testing posture (e.g., /testing-perfect-e2e-integration-tests-with-logging-and-no-mocks, /testing-conformance-harnesses, /testing-golden-artifacts, /testing-fuzzing, etc., as relevant and applicable).

And if we are done working on all open or stalled beads, and the review rounds are starting to converge and appear to be saturated (i.e., not many new bugs being found and fixed relative to the effort and token usage), then you can start applying various skills such as /mock-code-finder, /deadlock-finder-and-fixer, /reality-check-for-project, /modes-of-reasoning-project-analysis, /profiling-software-performance, and /security-audit-for-saas (only to the extent applicable) to helpfully come up with more useful things to do, which you can then create new beads for using br (see /beads-workflow) and execute using /vibing-with-ntm and the existing swarm.
