2026-04-22 | 55 likes

Seeking advice from people who are savvy about marketing for SaaS businesses.

My jeffreys-skills.md site has been growing nicely in percentage terms since I launched it around 6 weeks ago. It should hit $6k/month in MRR today at the current growth rate (see pic from my admin dashboard).

All this has been with negligible costs besides the ~5% fee to Stripe and PayPal for managing the subscriptions and billing. The site costs basically nothing to run, and I don’t offer a free tier.

So far, I’ve done zero paid marketing or advertising. Instead, I’ve just been writing posts about the new skills I’ve been making and how they work.

I believe the potential market for my service is pretty huge given that there are now 4 million active users of Codex alone, and many also using Claude Code.

Compared to spending $200/month for GPT Pro and Claude Max, paying just $20/month for my site is pretty cheap.

So my question is whether I should now start doing non-organic marketing, and if so, how?
I know that if I took venture funding (I didn’t, it’s all bootstrapped and I built everything myself), investors would be pushing me to spend a lot to grow faster.

But my past experience has been that paid marketing and advertising really doesn’t work very well and dramatically reduces margins.
I’d basically be competing against all the other venture-backed AI startups that are burning money in an undifferentiated game.

If I’m already growing ~200% a month, should I just keep doing what I’ve been doing and stick with organic content-based marketing that leverages my following on here?

Maybe I should instead spend my time and energy making it easier for non-technical users to use and make more general, non-software related skills (like income taxes and wills) that can have broader appeal?

Or focus more on business/teams users at a higher price point with enterprise functionality like SSO? (I’ve already built this out, but it’s a lot harder to sell those subscriptions; I don’t have a single teams customer yet!).

Curious to hear what people who have been through this think.

What do you suggest, @levelsio ? @dhh ? Anyone else? I appreciate any advice people can give me!
