2026-05-05 | 254 likes

See the announcement today from @brian_armstrong at Coinbase in the attached pic.

Managing fleets of agents effectively is the most high-impact thing you can do now for your company and for yourself personally.

I have the most advanced set of open-source, provider-agnostic agent tooling to do all that at scale:

MCP Agent Mail for inter-agent messaging and file reservations (avoid the git worktree anti-pattern and merge hell).

beads_rust for agent-intuitive task management that works well across all harnesses.

bv for triaging tasks based on the graph structure of task dependencies (maximize development velocity through de-bottlenecking).

ntm for doing agent orchestration (creating and managing swarms of Claude Code and Codex instances).

dcg for preventing the agents from doing destructive things.

cass for letting agents instantly search all session history globally for any agent harness

ubs for polyglot “super linting” and bug finding.

You can find all of these on my GitHub:

https://t.co/9qbOCDlaqM

Or install all of them automatically on a Linux cloud server using the acfs setup wizard, available for free at 

https://t.co/22Fy2w73x0 

And see my complete guide explaining how to do planning with these tools, which is the key to achieving high code quality:

https://t.co/7QNNFwvs3Z

And then to make these tools as effective as possible, I have a complete suite of powerful and sophisticated agent skills that are deeply integrated with the tooling available at 

https://t.co/Un9brY2G3l

The skills are $20/month. You don’t need to use them but they’re absolutely worth it if you want to get the most out of the tools and the agents in general.

Why do this now?

What’s happening at Coinbase is going to happen soon at every well-managed technology company within the next year. 

The writing is on the wall. This isn’t alarmist fear mongering. This is the inexorable reasoning of the market and capitalism grappling with these irresistible economic forces. 

Don’t wait and become a statistic, facing a structurally difficult job market without the skills that all well-positioned employers are going to be looking for. 

Take action NOW to master these technologies and empower yourself.
