2026-05-29 | 55 likes

It's always fun finding a new use case for agents. Today, I decided to finally record a screencast showing my current development setup and workflow, which many people have been asking me for over the last few months.

One reason I hate doing these and find them stressful is that I work on consulting projects for clients under NDA, and I'm always nervous about inadvertently leaking secret information.

And of course, during the process of recording it, I accidentally flashed my Gmail inbox at one point and also revealed certain folder names and project/repo names inadvertently.

I'm super busy with actual work, and the prospect of sitting there like an idiot stepping through frames looking for sensitive information to redact was extremely unappealing. 

So I decided to give Opus 4.8 the job as follows (this leverages a skill I had just for the video transcoding with FFmpeg; the rest was driven by this prompt):

❯ Use your /obs-youtube-music skill to remux '2026-05-28 15-05-39.mkv' to MP4 without changing the quality. I need your help in identifying and redacting (using opaque rectangles over the impacted area using FFmpeg during the time intervals warranted) a couple times where my screen revealed my Gmail inbox and anywhere that includes the string "<REDACTED CLIENT NAME>" or "<redacted_client_name>". 

Think of a good way to do this—one way would be to grab a frame every 1 second and then use OCR on it (something cheap and fast like Tesseract, which you could install, or a more modern system that could run decently on this Mac, like the built-in OCR in macOS) and then double-check them with your vision model to get the right bounding box and time interval. You can research the best approach.

--

And then after it finished (which took ~90 minutes in total; not bad considering the screen recording was ~30 minutes long), I did this:

❯ OK and when you're all done, you will need to manually verify that you did in fact redact the parts in question (and give me the timestamps so I can double-check this myself).

Anyway, it all worked extremely well. So well that I'm going to turn it into a skill that anyone can use on https://t.co/gPMIHym3Hv so that you can just give any forbidden strings or describe what you don't want included, and it will automatically handle the process of detecting, redacting, and verifying everything.
