2026-06-10 | 3 likes

Incredible. This is going to really improve asupersync (https://t.co/chaPlihrDW). 

Prompt used:

---

First read ALL of the AGENTS.md file and README.md file super carefully and understand ALL of both! Then use your code investigation agent mode to fully understand the code and technical architecture and purpose of the project. Really take the time to study the project in a super profound and deep way.

Then I want you to think about how we can improve the project to make it way more useful, compelling, helpful, performant, correct, robust, reliable, agent-intuitive, agent-ergonomic, versatile, and generally amazing and magnificent so that it becomes a library that YOU personally find indispensable so that you sorely miss it when it's not available for you to use in a new Rust project. 

Describe all your best ideas for changes to the API surface, changes to how certain features/functionality work, ideas for new features/functionality, ideas for different data structures, graph algorithms, ways to leverage RaptorQ, ways to leverage concepts from /alien-artifact-coding and /alien-graveyard, and other radically innovative and unprecedented features. 

THEN: take ALL of that and elaborate on it and use it to create a comprehensive and granular set of beads for all this with tasks, subtasks, and dependency structure overlaid, with detailed comments so that the whole thing is totally self-contained and self-documenting (including relevant background, reasoning/justification, considerations, etc.-- anything we'd want our "future self" to know about the goals and intentions and thought process and how it serves the over-arching goals of the project.). 

The beads should be so detailed that we never need to consult back to the original markdown plan document. Remember to ONLY use the `br` tool to create and modify the beads and add the dependencies.

THEN: Check over each bead super carefully-- are you sure it makes sense? Is it optimal? Could we change anything to make the system work better for users? If so, revise the beads. It's a lot easier and faster to operate in "plan space" before we start implementing these things! DO NOT OVERSIMPLIFY THINGS! DO NOT LOSE ANY FEATURES OR FUNCTIONALITY! Also make sure that as part of the beads we include comprehensive unit tests and e2e test scripts with great, detailed logging so we can be sure that everything is working perfectly after implementation. Make sure to ONLY use the `br` cli tool for all changes, and you can and should also use the `bv` tool to help diagnose potential problems with the beads.
