2026-07-25 | 141 likes

My take on Opus 5 versus Fable 5 and when you should use one or the other based on my observations so far today using it across ~15 projects and in various roles as well as based on the benchmarks is that, by and large, you should generally switch over to Opus for most things. 

It provides way more bang for the buck without making much in the way of intelligence sacrifices. And in some ways, it seems even better than Fable, even ignoring price. 

For one thing, it’s faster. But it also seems more dogged and agentic than Fable, while still being careful and cautious. 

So when to use Fable? I think it comes down to those applications that require more extensive knowledge about the world. 

There’s no substitute for parameter count when it comes to encoding sheer volume of information, at least when comparing frontier models of the same generation.

What kind of knowledge? This can be anything from detailed knowledge of history, of biological facts, the detailed synopses of novels, the detailed internals of particular open-source software projects and how they’ve changed across versions, etc.

Basically, the extreme long tail of minutiae, which generally isn’t that important or relevant… until it is, and then the smaller model misses something critical or wastes time going down a bad path that the larger model would’ve known to avoid.

In practical terms for my own work, this essentially means that I’ll be using Fable mostly for creating and reviewing and revising markdown plans, and maybe even for turning those plans into beads (not sure about that part yet).

But for actual implementation work, as long as those beads are self-contained and detailed enough, and as long as you have a good set of skills for software optimization and profiling and stuff like that (see my skills site and posts about those), I think you’re strictly better off using Opus for doing that stuff, and allocating the usage savings towards doing more rounds of “fresh eye” reviews.

I also continue to believe that the best results by far come from combining models. Having Sol Max collaborate and review alongside Opus 5 using agent mail and ntm is always going to work way better than using any model in isolation, or even groups of the same model.
