2026-08-16 | 1 likes

I have suggested before, friends, that the time may be near at hand when we shall not need to fuss with good roads nor railway tracks, bridges, etc., at such an enormous expense.

With these machines we can bid adieu to all these things. God’s free air, that extends all over the earth, and perhaps miles above us, is our training field.

Rubber tires, and the price of rubber, are no longer “in it.” The thousand and one parts of the automobile that go to make its construction, and to give it strength, can all be dispensed with.

You can set your basket of eggs almost anywhere on the upper or lower deck, they will not even rattle unless it be when they come to alight.

There are hundreds of queer things coming to light in regard to this new method of travel; and I confess it is not clear to me, even yet, how that little aluminum engine, with four paddles, does the work.

I asked the question, “Boys, would that engine and these two propellers raise the machine from the ground if placed horizontally above it?”

“Certainly not, Mr. Root. They would not lift a quarter of its weight.”

“Then how is it possible that it sustains it in the air as it is?”

The answer involves a strange point in the wonderful discovery of air navigation.

When some large bird or butterfly is soaring with motionless wings, a very little power from behind will keep it moving. Well, if this motion is kept up, a very little incline of the wings will keep it from falling.

A little more incline, and a little more push from behind, and the bird or the butterfly, or the machine created by human hands, will gradually use in the air.

I was surprised at the speed, and I was astonished at the wonderful lifting power of this comparatively small apparatus.

When I saw it pick up the fifty pounds of iron so readily I asked if I might ride in place of the iron. I received, by way of assurance, the answer that the machine would no doubt carry me easily.

You see then I would have the “front seat;” and even if it is customary (or used to be in olden times) to accord the front seat to the ladies, I think the greater part of them would say, “Oh! sit still, Mr. Root. Do not think of getting up to give us your seat.”

At first there was considerable trouble about getting the machine up in the air and the engine well up to speed. They did this by running along a single-rail track perhaps 200 feet long.

It was also, in the early experiments, found advisable to run against the wind, because they could then have a greater time to practice in the air and not get so far away from the building where it was stored.

Since they can come around to the starting-point, however, they can start with the wind even behind them; and with a strong wind behind it is an easy matter to make even more than a mile a minute.

The operator takes his place lying flat on his face. This position offers less resistance to the wind. The engine is started and got up to speed.
