2026-08-16 | 1 likes

Other experiments had to be made in turning from right to left; and, to make the matter short, it was my privilege, on the 20th day of September, 1904, to see the first successful trip of an airship, without a balloon to sustain it, that the world has ever made, that is, to turn the corners and come back to the starting-point.

During all of these experiments they have kept so near the soft marshy ground that a fall would be no serious accident, either to the machine or its occupant.

In fact, so carefully have they managed, that, during these years of experimenting, nothing has happened to do any serious damage to the machine nor to give the boys more than what might be called a severe scratch.

I think great praise is due them along this very line. They have been prudent and cautious.

I told you there was not another machine equal to such a task as I have mentioned, on the face of the earth; and, furthermore, just now as I dictate there is probably not another man besides these two who has learned the trick of controlling it.

In making this last trip of rounding the circle, the machine was kept near the ground, except in making the turns.

If you will watch a large bird when it swings around in a circle you will see its wings are tipped up at an incline.

This machine must follow the same rule; and to clear the tip of the inside wing it was found necessary to rise to a height of perhaps 20 or 25 feet.

When the engine is shut off, the apparatus glides to the ground very quietly, and alights on something much like a pair of light sled-runners, sliding over the grassy surface perhaps a rod or more.

Whenever it is necessary to slow up the speed before alighting, you turn the nose up hill. It will then climb right up on the air until the momentum is exhausted, when, by skillful management, it can be dropped as lightly as a feather.

Since the above was written they have twice succeeded in making four complete circles without alighting, each circle passing the starting-point.

These circles are nearly a mile in circumference each; and the last flight made, Dec. 1, could have been prolonged indefinitely had it not been that the rudder was in such position it cramped the hand of the operator so he was obliged to alight.

The longest flight took only five minutes and four seconds by the watch.

Over one hundred flights have been made during the past summer. Some of them reached perhaps 50 or 60 feet above ground.

On both these long trips seventy pounds instead of fifty of cast iron was carried on the “nose.”

Everybody is ready to say, “Well, what use is it? what good will it do?” These are questions no man can answer as yet. However, I will give you a suggestion or two.

The man who made this last trip said there was no difficulty whatever in going above the trees or anywhere he chose; but perhaps wisdom would dictate he should have still more experience a little nearer the ground.

The machine easily made thirty or forty miles an hour, and this in going only a little more than half a mile straight ahead.

No doubt it would get up a greater speed if allowed to do so ― perhaps, with the wind, a mile a minute after the first mile.

The manager could doubtless go outside of the field and bring it back safely, to be put in the little house where it is kept nights.

But no matter how much time it takes, I am sure all the world will commend the policy so far pursued ― go slowly and carefully, and avoid any risk that might cause the loss of a human life.

This great progressive world can not afford to take the risk of losing the life of either of these two men.*
